# Finger-Oximetry-Hackathon
<p>Pulse oximeter measurements tend to have bias based on skin tone- the tendency tends to be to overestimate SpO2 values for patients with darker skin, even when SaO2 values indicate hypoxemia. <p>
	<p>As of January of 2025, the FDA has released draft guidance to verify the accuracy of pulse oximeters across different skin tones. However, as the transition to these new devices that account for skin tone will take time and resources for hospitals to replace older devices, in addition to potential retraining of hospial staff to take measurements with new equipment, our team proposes an app-based solution to take in inputs of skin tone and other confounding factors to correct SpO2 readings from current pulse oximeters. This can be an efficient, low-cost way to correct for SpO2 biases in clinic without having to wait for the guidance transition to occur in industry. <p>
	<p>Using a database (OpenOximetry Repository v1.1.1) containing skin tone data, patient demographics, pulse oximeter readings,SaO2 (invasive measurement of arterial blood gas which is considered more reliable) and location of pulse oximeter measurement and device type, we determined that there was a difference between SpO2 readings (from pulse oximeter) and SaO2 readings based on both Monk’s Skin Tone and sex.<p>
	<p>Our app takes an input of the patient’s Monk’s Skin Tone, sex, and fingertip pulse oximeter measurement and applies a correction factor using a linear regression model so that the estimated value may be closer to the true blood oxygen saturation.<p>
	<p>Due to time constraints, we focused on healthy patients and only fingertip pulse oximeters as they are more common. Additional confounding variables to be added to the model in the future may include alternate measurement locations, age, and various health conditions that also affect SpO2 reading accuracy such as diabetes may be aken into account. Moreover, for ease of use in clinic and to minimize provider bias, we would like to integrate a image classifier to automatically determine the patient’s Monk Skin Tone, which is part of the research being done at Google AI Skin Tone Research. Another approach would be to use skin spectrophotometry data which was also provided in our data set, but we did not use this due to additional equipment being needed in a clinic to get this measurement.<p> 

# Citations
<p>Fong, N., Lipnick, M., Bickler, P., Feiner, J., & Law, T. (2025). OpenOximetry Repository (version 1.1.1). PhysioNet. RRID:SCR_007345. https://doi.org/10.13026/be2e-cn29<p>
<p>Fong, N., Lipnick, M.S., Behnke, E. et al. Open Access Dataset and Common Data Model for Pulse Oximeter Performance Data. Sci Data 12, 570 (2025). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-025-04870-8<p>
<p>Goldberger, A., Amaral, L., Glass, L., Hausdorff, J., Ivanov, P. C., Mark, R., ... & Stanley, H. E. (2000). PhysioBank, PhysioToolkit, and PhysioNet: Components of a new research resource for complex physiologic signals. Circulation [Online]. 101 (23), pp. e215–e220. RRID:SCR_007345.<p>
<p>Winawer, N.H. (2022, December 28). Pulse Oximetry Is Less Accurate in Patients with Darker Skin Pigmentation. NEJM Journal Watch. https://www.jwatch.org/na55581/2022/12/28/pulse-oximetry-less-accurate-patients-with-darker-skin<p>
<p>Sony, S., Shekhar, S., Walikar, B.N., & Shiwali, S. (2022). Raynaud’s Phenomenon During Non-operating Room Anesthesia: A Case Report. Cureus, 14(12), e32906. https://doi:10.7759/cureus.32906<p>
<p>Pu, L.J., Shen, Y., Lu, L., Zhang, R.Y., Zhang, Q., & Shen, W.F. (2012). Increased blood glycohemoglobin A1c levels lead to overestimation of arterial oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry in patients with type 2 diabetes. Cardiovascular Diabetology, 11(1),110. https://doi:10.1186/1475-2840-11-110<p>
<p>Food and Drug Administration. (2025, January 6). FDA Proposes Updated Recommendations to Help Improve Performance of Pulse Oximeters Across Skin Tones. https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/fda-proposes-updated-recommendations-help-improve-performance-pulse-oximeters-across-skin-tones<p>
<p>Chan, E. D., Chan, M. M., & Chan, M. M. (2013). Pulse oximetry: Understanding its basic principles facilitates appreciation of its limitations. Respiratory Medicine, 107(6).  https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rmed.2013.02.004<p>

